# 7DTDSaga

## Introduction
Seven Days To Die (7DTD) is a survival horror game that has been in early access longer than some of you have been alive. Players spawn in a pseudo-random location in a procedurally generated world, and they have to scavenge for materials and food, craft tools and weapons, and fight for survival against the hordes of zombies that spawn at night.
Naturally, one of the main activities in 7DTD is to build a base to store your supplies and defend against the zombie hoards. Players can set up persistent servers for others to join and play in their world. Many fo these servers eventually build up sizeable communities, and most of these servers are PvE servers - the goal is to find some friends, build a base together, and protect yourself from the zombies that attack every night.
But we had other plans.

## The Protagonists
I played 7DTD with an old friend named Adrin. Adrin and I play many games together, and in some of them we try to find the funniest ways to mess with people. For example, in StarCraft we would often do monobattles on ladder, or we would cliff cheese our opponents... sometimes as Zerg. In 7DTD, we thought it would be fun to pose as friendly PvE players, but secretly and covertly raid other peoples' bases, stealing their resources, and sometimes razing their bases altogether. This is the glorious saga of some of the things we did.

## Infinite Wood
7DTD is like many other survival games. You would typically start by crafting basic tools like axes and chopping down trees for wood. In 7DTD, you got a little bit of wood when striking a tree, and the final hit to fell the tree would give you a huge reward. For example, each strike may only give 2 wood, but the last hit on the tree would give you 100. 7DTD also implements a voxel physics system, meaning each 1x1 block in the world has certain physical properties like weight and adhesion. If you mined out a certain number of blocks underneath some other blocks, the blocks above would fall and be destroyed. However, this physics system is extremely inefficient. If you undermine a house, it may take a few mintues for the blocks of the house to finish collapsing.

One day, I was bored, so I undermined one of the skyscraper prefabs. When you do this, the physics process of the game takes time away from other processes, and every player on the server feels lag every few seconds. As this skyscraper was collapsing (which took a few hours to complete), I went back to gathering resources, and having laid the final blow to a particular tree, its health reduced to 0, I got the 100 wood bonus, but the tree did not disappear. Instead, it stayed at 0 health. I struck it again. I got 100 more wood. Hallelujah! I asked myself: What does one do with all this wood? The answer was immediate. I built an all-wood shrine around the tree, reaching up to 255 height (the highest altitude possible), complete with a diving board at the top, as this tree was next to a nice lake. My Infinite Tower of Infinite Wood was only the first of many major exploits I would find in 7DTD.

## Infinite Everything Else
7DTD's crafting system uses a queue. You select what you want to craft, and it puts it into this queue along with a timer for when the craft will finish. You can cancel items in the queue to get the resources back. Since I had enormous amounts of wood, I was queueing up very large crafts. At one point, I accidentally discovered how to dupe crafting materials. If your queue has something in it, and your inventory only has one open slot, and cancelling the craft would refund more materials than would fit in the open slot, it fills the slot as much as possible, but the craft does not cancel. So, I would queue up a full stack of wooden boxes for example, fill up my inventory save for 1 slot, cancel the craft, get a full stack of raw wood, and the boxes would still be in the queue. I could then drop the raw wood, the craft would automatically try to do the refind, and I would get another full stack of raw wood. Once I figured this out, I quickly realized I could dupe almost every crafting material in the game, including brass, iron, and many other things that are essential for higher level crafting.

I called Adrin to my wooden tower when I figured this out. When he arrived, I simply said "Do you need some Iron?" Then I started dropping full stacks of iron in front of him - way more iron than could possiblt fit into anybody's inventory. After he finished laughing, I taught him the trick, and with infinite crafting materials, we planned out a cool base and started building it.

## Land Claim Blocks
In 7DTD, there is a block that each player starts with 1 copy of (and is craftable but expensive). It is called a Land Claim Block. When you place it, it marks every block within a 16x16 block radius as belonging to you. You can still place blocks in that area and mine things as normal, but other players cannot place anything, and other players deal 16x less damage to blocks in the radius. This is to make your little slice of land "safe" from other players raiding you. People often place land claim blocks underground, somewhere relatively well hidden, so other players can't go straight to it and destroy it, but that didn't deter me.

The first thing I would do when discovering someone's base is map out the extents of their land claim. I did this by walking around placing some of my infinite wooden boxes until it wouldn't let me place any. This allowed me to find the 4 corners of their land claim. Once I had that, I just counted out blocks to the midpoint, and marked that spot on the map. I knew the X and Z position of their land claim but not the elevation. Because this was a PvE server, many of the players trusted each other a little too much, and their land claim was pretty easy to find and access, even without trying to burrow through their other base's walls and defenses. The first few times I raided people, word spread quickly that someone on the server was raiding bases, so people started tightening up their security and hiding their land claim blocks better.

## X-Ray Vision
This is how I discovered the second exploit I used to raid people: Seeing through terrain. I found that if you dig a tunnel 1 block wide and 2 blocks tall, then place a door (made of my infinite wood) in the tunnel, open the door, stand in the doorway, then close the door while jumping, your character's head could go through the ceiling, and you would be able to see through terrain. It's basically an out-of-bounds trick, but you can only see OOB, not move OOB. When I found someone's base, I would map out the land claim block as usual, but then I would use this trick to see the layout and structure of any part of their base that were underground. Sometimes I could see right into the room where they keps all their valuable stuff. The best part is I could do this from far outside their land claim, so it didn't cost me any item durability like it would have had I had the 16x damage penalty inside their claim. These two tricks together made it super easy to scout peoples' bases, locate their land claim block(s), and devise the quickest way in, destroy their land claim, steal their stuff, and have Adrin help me mule their things back to our base.

The best part of this strategy was that I could leave my tunnels there and just cover them up with a few tiles of dirt on my way out, and they wouldn't know how I had gotten in. If they tried to reclaim their land, I could just go in and raid them again much more easily.

## Reverse Land Claim
At this point, Adrin and I had so much valuable stuff in our base, we didn't really need any more, but we still wanted to grief these PvE players, because that's the kind of people we are. So, for the next few weeks, whenever I would raid someone, I would destroy their land claim block, but I would place my own land claim block somewhere they would never find it, and now their base is my base. However, I would leave all the doors unlocked so that they wouldn't notice. To them, they could still open and close all their doors normally and put materials in their chests. The only way they would know their claim is gone is if they tried placing more blocks down in their base. You'd be surprised how many people just build a rudimentary base, and then never expand or improve it. We had been in this server so long, we knew the names of the regulars, and we knew which bases belonged to which people, so all we had to do was wait for them to log off, and we would simply walk in, take their stuff, and walk out.

## The Trap
One day, I found someone's base, and I decided to raid it. When I did not know was that it was an elaborate trap set by three players to find out who was raiding on this server. They got me into a relatively small room with only one exist, and the three of them stood at the exit and bodyblocked me from escaping. They then went to whatever forum or discord the server had, and said they found a raider and had him trapped, and requested an admin to come online. At this point, I thought I was screwed. However, through the grace of some ancient god, the server went down. On the main menu, I continually hit refresh until the server was back up, and I connected as soon as possible. When you leave a server (or it goes down), it remembers where you were. So I reconnected into the room I was stuck in, but I was the first person online. With the trappers no longer blocking the exit, I left the room and ran away into some random nearby forest, then logged off and laid low for a few hours. Some time later, I would log back in, and just walk back to my base safely. Luckily for me, none of them thought to take screenshots of my trapped in that room, so they had no evidence that I was there, and the admins never kicked me.

## The Payback
I knew the names of the three dudes who tried trapping me (names are above players' heads in the game), and I knew they shared another actual base. It was time to plan my revenge.

There is a craftable item in the game called TNT. You place it like any other block. When you shoot it with a bullet, it blows up, dealing huge damage to anything within a 2 block radius. I watched and waited for these guys to log off one day, and once they did, I moved in. I first destroyed their land claim blocks, which took awhile as they had like 5 of them. Then, with free reign of their base, I looted their most valuable shit. Then I tunneled under their base and set up an intricate set of TNT nodes in a grid pattern, so that if I shot one of them, they would all explode and collapse their entire base. Importantly, I did not claim their base, I left it "neutral" so they would still think it was safe, eager for the events of tomorrow.

I got on the server early tomorrow and waited for the noble tryhards to log on. Once they were all logged on, I waited for all three of them to go into their base, at which point, I took out my sniper rifle, zoomed in, and shot one of the TNT nodes I had set. This started a chain reaction of TNT blowing up underneath their base, which led to its eventual collapse, all while they were in it. People who say revenge never solves anything may be right, but they have never tasted it.

## The Final Challenge
Most of the shenanigans Adrin and I did on this server were mroe of the same. Pretend to be random PvE players who are also getting raided, while occasionally waiting for people to rebuild and relocate their bases so we could raid them. However, one duo of players built a base that was unraidable. That is, until I raided it.

They had build a little tower in the middle of this snowy biome. Once they had a tower, they dug out a large, deep moat around it, and placed a bridge only they could activate. Because of this moat, there was no way to tunnel into their base. I would have had to jump intot he moat and mine my way up, which takes a lot more time with a 16x damage penalty than simply mining in a straight line. Additionally, they placed tons of spikes and traps in the moat, so I would probably be killed if I went down there anyway. So, how did I get in?

The first step was to lock them out. I had to wait a few days for the right moment to strike. I needed them to log off while they were not in their base. Once this happened, I made my move. I started building a wall 6 units high (much higher than you can jump) out of reinforced concrete, which is the toughest block to destroy. This wall completely surrounded their base and was just outside the extents of their land claim. I then used 15 or so land claim blocks of my own, placing them on the outer edges of their claim, such that my wall was claimed by me. So now, their base was surrounded by a nearly invincible wall that only I could open the doors of. These two guys were locked out of their own base.

Land claim blocks expire after a week of not replacing them (you can destroy your own land claim block to reclaim it and place it again), so I just waited a week for theirs to expire, and I simply built a bridge over their moat, stole their land claim block, and claimed it for myself. Their base was more effective now that I owned it, because in addition to the impassible moat, it now had an impenetrable wall. However, the base was rather tiny, so I ended up just stealing their loot and undermining the tower to level it.
